# class-readings-10-github.io

Why is authentication important?
To protect sensitive information and allow only authorised user to access an account.

Why should we be careful about storing a user’s password?
No one should have access to password except the user.

What is the difference between hashing and encryption?

Cryptography is the science of finding methods to encode messages so that they can only be
understood by someone who knows secret information required for decoding, called the key. 
A Cryptographic Hash Algorithm takes a piece of data and produces a hash that is deliberately 
difficult to decode. If identical data is passed into the algorithm, the same hash will always be produced.
For user data, we often has a user’s password and store the irreversible hash string into the 
database. When the user needs to log in, they can send the server a plain text password which 
is hashed again by the server, and compared to the stored hashed value.
A Cryptographic Cypher Algorithm takes a piece of data and a key and produces encrypted data. 
Later, the encrypted data can be reversed into the original data by decrypting it using the same key. 
This is often generated by the server to signify an logged-in user. This encrypted data is sent to the 
client, and then returned to the server on future requests. Since only the server has the key, only the 
server can decrypt the given token, and verify the user.

What is the difference between encryption and encoding?
 Encoding is for maintaining data usability and can be reversed by employing the same algorithm that encoded the content, 
 i.e. no key is used.
 Encryption is for maintaining data confidentiality and requires the use of a key (kept secret) in order to return to plaintext.
 
What is a token used for?
A token is used to make security decisions and to store tamper-proof 
information about some system entity. While a token is generally used to represent only security information,
it is capable of holding additional free-form data that can be attached while the token is being created.
